How about we, stretch our
muscles a little bit with, well,
physically, if we can, and also,
mentally, with a little quick win,
and just imagine a GIF of Darth Vader
[LAUGH] emerging from some fog.
This is a very exciting webpage.
Web application [LAUGH] where
we have a little toggle,
and is it even a website in 2023?
If it doesn't support dark mode and
light mode, right?
No, we now have to have dark mode for
everything.
So let's start there.
This is the number one skill for
professional JavaScript developers
implementing dark mode.
All right, so we've got a little toggle.
We've got a very excited Darth Vader,
because, obviously,
his browser is set to dark mode.
And we have a toggle that does nothing.
Your job is to fix it.
So, if you download this page,
which is at
professional.javascript.darkmode.index.-
html you will be able to poke around and
see what is going on in
this very simple web app.
It's a tiny, we'll call it a webpage.
But it is an interactive, well not yet,
but will be interactive webpage.
So if you save page as, you can save
it as whatever name you'd like and
open it in your favorite
text editor of choice.
Okay, so in VS Code, this is roughly
what [LAUGH] this page should look like.
If yours looks slightly different,
that is because of things that we're gonna
talk about when we talk
about developer tooling,
namely a little thing called beat.
But essentially, you should be
experiencing a similar webpage.
So we've got some stuff going on.
We got some style sheets up there that are
just essentially adding some nice default
styles to the page.
We've got a pretty simple document
that as you saw doesn't really
give us a lot to work with on the page.
But it has a very fancy header and
a nav element with one thing
you can click on which is an input,
a checkbox input that basically
is styled to look like styled to
look like a toggle switch on off,
but Checkboxes
are the appropriate input for
something where it's either on or
it's off.
So the question is,
is dark mode on or not?
Now the fancy style that I
mentioned is being applied
here also reads a custom
System attribute on,
well, on any element, but right now,
it's set on the main HTML element
that's called data theme.
So data-attributes,
have folks run into these before?
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah, where do you
typically run into these, yeah
>> Testing.
>> Testing, okay.
So these are often used by all kinds
of different tools and libraries and
things like that as a way to essentially
let HTML elements kind of remember some
data that the browser doesn't care about
because these are just made up attributes.
It's a convention to call them data minus,
and
then whatever the piece of data
is that you're interested in.
But for example, it's quite easy
to read them in JavaScript and
then do stuff accordingly.
So the stylesheet that we've got
basically reads that data theme and
applies the styling of her appropriately,
this is not a CSS class and
you definitely wouldn't
want to take one from me.
So this is we're just gonna let
somebody else handle that and
who is handling that is
a little tool called Pico CSS.
So, if you want to look that up, you can
find the stylesheet that we're using.
Okay, so Pico CSS basically puts
everything that we've got in
this page in dark mode because we
have this data theme equals dark.
So there's also a data theme equals
light option that can change things.
And if I were to just, Change that here,
the whole page would turn
into something different.
And let me do that in my browser here to
show you a little what it looks like.
So, yay browser DevTools!
I can just edit this page.
Should live in the browser.
Anybody else do this to mess with those
really annoying gatekeeping overlays?
No, just me, okay.
Now yes, we all do, right?
So and if anybody is just needs a
refresher on how I got to this interface,
which again is the same as what we use for
the console,
we're just in the inspector Tab
instead of the console tab.
It's basically there should be
a right click and then inspect or
Inspect Element option depending on your
browser but inspect will get you there.
Okay, so if I change this to light, so
we've got now glaringly bright.
Seen and there's a fun little bit
of CSS in there that swapping out
the background image to so that we get
to see the light side of the force and
not just stuffy old data.
Okay, so your mission should you choose to
accept it is to do what I just did using
JavaScript.
And in order to do that,
you're probably going to want to grab that
HTML element somehow,
check on that data-theme attribute.
There is that checkbox.
There's a little handy-dandy
ID tag on it called toggle
that you can use to find that and
set up an event handler,
[LAUGH] otherwise known
as an event listener.
[LAUGH] Onto that check box to
change the theme based on whether
it's checked or not.